Welcome to this course on Data Engineering for data scientists.
We'll introduce you to some of the skills that data engineers use to gather and
manipulate data and how you can incorporate
those skills into your work as a data scientist.
So, what exactly do data engineers do?
Well, data engineers gather all kinds of data from different sources,
a process and combine this data,
and then store the clean data in a place that can be easily accessed.
The goal is to get everything ready so that a data scientist,
business analyst, or really anyone at
the company can use this data without having to do much wrangling.
Data engineers automate this whole process writing
software programs called data pipelines.
These engineers work with large systems that they build test and maintain with code.
More recently, data engineers are being asked to
automate and scale machine learning algorithms as well.
They're actually much closer to software engineers than they are to data scientists.
As a data scientist,
it's important that you have at least some data engineering skills.
You'll often be communicating with engineers about
what data you need and what format the data needs to be in.
I'll be the first to admit that
the most fascinating part of data science for me is machine learning,
but you can't build features and train
a machine learning model with messy poorly formatted data.
That's where data engineering comes into play.
Let's talk in more detail about what exactly the role
of a data engineer is and what you'll be doing in this lesson.